# Glossary

## Overview

In SiYuan, some relatively complicated terminology is involved, which can be confusing. In this chapter, we will explain these terms one by one, hoping to help you better understand and use SiYuan.

Please #Note#, when it comes to specific functions, the following content is mainly introduced on the desktop.

## Editor

### Breadcrumb

> Typically, a breadcrumb is an auxiliary element in application navigation, usually in a horizontal sequence at the top or below the top of the page. It shows the path of the user's current location, providing a convenient memory and sense of direction during the user's navigation. Breadcrumbs make it easier for users to navigate the site structure, quickly return to a previous page or a higher-level page, and reduce the chance of invalid clicks and getting lost. It can be used as part of user experience design to improve the usability and ease of use of the application.

In SiYuan, breadcrumbs refer to the block paths connected by right arrows at the top of the editor, which are used to navigate in the block structure. Each layer starts with a block icon, and the preview floating window can be opened by hovering the mouse.

### Anchor text

> Typically, anchor text refers to the portion of text that is clicked on within a hyperlink, and it is usually blue. The anchor text can be connected with the URL address of the hyperlink. When the user clicks the anchor text, it will automatically jump to the corresponding webpage or file. Anchor text can be any word or phrase, but it should usually be associated with the content being linked, usually the title of the target jump content.

In SiYuan, we have extended anchor text in the usual sense from hyperlink elements to block quotes and PDF annotation reference elements. In particular, the anchor text of the block quote element is divided into static anchor text and dynamic anchor text. For details, please refer to the Reference Content Block Anchor Text[^1] section.

### Editor Mode

- What you see is what you get: the editor interface under normal circumstances

  - Editable: support modifying content
  - Only read-only: only supports viewing content, does not support modification
- Export preview: preview after conversion to standard Markdown

WYSIWYG and export preview mode switches are located in the <kbd>︙</kbd> menu in the upper right corner of the editor; WYSIWYG editing and read-only mode switches are located in the upper right corner of the top bar.

## Data repository

### Key

The key is used to encrypt data snapshots, there are three ways to generate[^2]. It is recommended that ordinary users use passphrase generation. The same passphrase can generate the same key on other devices to facilitate initial data synchronization.

### Local snapshot

Data snapshots saved locally on the device.

### Locally tagged snapshot

Manually tagged snapshots in local snapshots. The purpose of tagging is to facilitate searching, and a meaningful tag name can serve as a sufficient reminder when rolling back a snapshot.

### Cloud snapshot

Data snapshots saved on cloud storage.

### Cloud tagged snapshot

The data snapshot after the locally tagged snapshot is uploaded to the cloud.

## Interface

### Dock

The sidebars on the left, right and bottom of the main interface are used to store the panel entry buttons.

### Panel

Panels refer to functional areas opened from the dock, such as the document tree, outline, and backlinks.

### Tab

Tabs are similar to tabs on a browser, and different types of tabs have different functions.

#### Editor tab

Used to load the docs editor.

#### PDF tab

Used to load PDFs.

#### Search tab

Open the search interface in a tab, so that users can use other tabs at the same time without being blocked by the search window for other work.

#### Spaced Repeatition tab

Open the spaced repetition interface in a tab.

### Window

Tabs can be converted into windows independent of the main interface, and windows can be dragged outside the main interface to avoid overcrowding in the main interface.

By pinning the window, the window can also be placed on top of all applications so that the user can make better use of the limited screen space.

### Layout

The status of the dock bar, tabs, and panels of the current main interface constitutes the layout, and the layout can be saved and switched in the workspace menu in the upper left corner.

### Block icon

Icons appearing in front of blocks, and block labels appearing in the panel support opening the floating preview window by hovering the mouse in most cases, such as the block labels in the outline panel and anti-link panel.

In addition to the floating preview, the block label also supports <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>Click</kbd> to open in the tab, which is especially useful in scenarios such as anti-link panels that require context jumping.

## Other

### Serving

Through the service capabilities provided by the SiYuan kernel Use on browser[^3].

[^1]: ## Anchor text

    Anchor text is the text you see when rendering a reference. It is divided into static anchor text and dynamic anchor text:

    - Static anchor text: It will not change with the content of the definition block, that is, the specified content will be displayed fixedly
    - Dynamic anchor text: follow the content of the defined block, the maximum length can be set in <kbd>Settings</kbd> - <kbd>Editor</kbd> - <kbd>The maximum length of block ref dynamic anchor text</kbd> , supports up to `5120` characters

    Here's how to modify anchor text:

    - Move the cursor caret into the reference element and modify the content directly, which will set the reference's anchor text to static anchor text
    - Right-click the reference element and modify the anchor text in the pop-up menu, so that the anchor text obtained is also static anchor text
    - Clear the anchor text in the pop-up menu after right-clicking the reference element, this will use dynamic anchor text

    In the `((` search result list:

    - Direct <kbd>Enter</kbd> or <kbd>Click</kbd> will use dynamic anchor text
    - Press <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>Enter</kbd> or <kbd>Ctrl</kbd>+<kbd>Click</kbd> to use static anchor text


[^2]: - <kbd>Import Key</kbd>: Copy the key string from another device to this paste and import
    - <kbd>Auto-generate key</kbd>: Use random text to generate the key, this method only needs to be executed once on one device, and other devices use <kbd>Import key</kbd>
    - <kbd>Generate key by passphrase</kbd>: Use a custom passphrase to generate the key, which requires the same passphrase on all devices


[^3]: # Use on browser

    ## Browser usage

    In <kbd>Settings</kbd> - <kbd>About</kbd> - <kbd>Use on browser</kbd> - <kbd>Open browser</kbd>, you can directly use SiYuan on the browser, if you need to use it in the local area network, replace `127.0.0.1` with the local area network IP address.

    In addition to the use of the local LAN, the use of the public network can be achieved by the following two methods:

    - Publish local kernel services on the public network through the "intranet penetration" technology (more troublesome and unstable, not recommended)
    - Build your own SiYuan Server (recommended)

    Before embarking on these two solutions, please start with understanding SiYuan Technical Architecture (github repo: siyuan-note/siyuan).

    ### Access authentication

    In <kbd>Settings</kbd> - <kbd>About</kbd>, you can configure the browser access authentication password. Leaving it blank means that authentication is not enabled. This is more useful in open networks (such as office spaces and public networks), and only after authentication can you enter the work space.

    ‍
