# Window and Tab

SiYuan supports multiple windows and multiple tabs, so that you can edit and view documents easily.

The tabs support up and down and left and right split screens, and all open tabs are synchronized in real time. For example, if you open multiple tabs for the same document, after editing and saving one of the tabs, the other tabs will also automatically synchronize the latest content to avoid dirty data overwriting while enjoying the convenience of multiple openings.

Except that the document is saved synchronously, the associated rendering generated after saving is also synchronous. The preview of the content block and the relationship diagram related to the document are refreshed in real time, which can eliminate interference to the minimum and let us focus on the notebook.

In addition to split-screen operation, the tabs also support drag and drop, so that we can arrange the entire interface as we want, record notes and organize knowledge in our most comfortable layout.

If the screen of the device you are using is small, you can consider use on browser[^1], in this way, the overall interface switching can be performed through the browser instance. If you only need to convert the tab into an independent window, you can right-click on the tab <kbd>Move to New Window</kbd>, or drag the tab to a place outside the current window and release the drag, this also converts the tab into a separate window.

[^1]: # Use on browser

    ## Browser usage

    In <kbd>Settings</kbd> - <kbd>About</kbd> - <kbd>Use on browser</kbd> - <kbd>Open browser</kbd>, you can directly use SiYuan on the browser, if you need to use it in the local area network, replace `127.0.0.1` with the local area network IP address.

    In addition to the use of the local LAN, the use of the public network can be achieved by the following two methods:

    - Publish local kernel services on the public network through the "intranet penetration" technology (more troublesome and unstable, not recommended)
    - Build your own SiYuan Server (recommended)

    Before embarking on these two solutions, please start with understanding SiYuan Technical Architecture (github repo: siyuan-note/siyuan).

    ### Access authentication

    In <kbd>Settings</kbd> - <kbd>About</kbd>, you can configure the browser access authentication password. Leaving it blank means that authentication is not enabled. This is more useful in open networks (such as office spaces and public networks), and only after authentication can you enter the work space.

    ‍
