# Daily notes

We can quickly create a document through the daily note, and the daily note function entrance is in the top main menu.

Before using the daily note, you need to open <kbd>Settings</kbd> in the notebook right-click menu, and configure in the new diary settings:

- Save path: the path under the notebook, support template variables[^1]
- Template path (optional): use this template as the initial content when creating the daily note

Tips: Use in the specified template Embed Content Block[^2] to summarize to-do items or content blocks that need to be viewed daily.

[^1]: We have built-in variables and functions to enrich the template through the open source project Sprig (GitHub repo: Masterminds/sprig). For example, you can use `.action{now | date "2006-01-02 15:04:05"}` to render the current time. For more usage, please refer to [Sprig Function Documentation](http://masterminds.github.io/sprig/).


[^2]: # Embed Content Block

    ## Overview

    The embed content block is mainly used to summarize the required content blocks, use `{{` and `}}` to wrap SQL scripts on a single line: `{{ SELECT * FROM blocks WHERE content LIKE'%Keyword%' }}`, database table please refer to here[^3]. #Content Block/Embed#

    ## Example

    - Query list items that contain `content block`:

      ```sql
      {{ SELECT * FROM blocks WHERE content LIKE '%content block%' AND type = 'i' }}
      ```
    - The query content contains both `content block` and `reference` paragraph blocks:

      ```sql
      {{ SELECT * FROM blocks WHERE content LIKE '%content block%' AND content LIKE '%reference%' AND type = 'p') }}
      ```
    - The query content contains heading blocks of both `content block` and `embed`, and the first 2 items are selected in descending order of update time:

      ```sql
      {{ SELECT * FROM blocks WHERE content LIKE '%content block%' AND content LIKE '%embed%' AND type ='h' ORDER BY updated DESC LIMIT 2 }}
      ```

    ### Case 1

    The query contains paragraph blocks of both `In SiYuan` and `core concept` text, and excludes the current document (otherwise the paragraph block will also be included in the result set, because the current paragraph also contains these two texts. The following case is similar):

    In ((20230415111951-vt4y4gg "SiYuan")), the only important core concept is ((20200924101106-19z4kaa "Content block")). The content block can be formed through the formatting format, so that we can organize our thoughts and knowledge at the block-level granularity, and it is also convenient for reading and outputting long content.

    ### Case 2

    Query for paragraph blocks containing the tag `#Content Block/Embed#` or `#Content Block/Reference#`:

    After entering `((`, the content block reference search will be triggered. Continue to input as the search keyword. In the search results, use the up and down keys to select and press Enter to complete the content block reference. After the content block reference is established, hover the mouse. After the anchor text is placed, the preview layer will pop up, showing the referenced content block (definition block). #Content Block/Reference#

    ### Case 3

    Sometimes we may need to randomly roam and display content blocks to facilitate review.

    Use `.action{ .field }` to access view properties

    Ignoring searches refers to filtering out certain unwanted results when searching.

    ## Code block

    If the language name is followed by ```, it can have the effect of syntax highlighting, for example:

    ### Demonstrate Go code highlighting

    ```go
    package main

    import "fmt"

    func main() {
    fmt.Println("Hello, World")
    }
    ```
    ### Demo Java highlighting

    ```java
    public class HelloWorld {

        public static void main(String[] args) {
            System.out.println("Hello World!");
        }

    }
    ```
    > Tip: Language names support the following: `ruby`, `python`, `js`, `html`, `erb`, `css`, `coffee`, `bash`, `json`, `yml`, ` xml` ...
    >

    ### Case 4

    To query the unfinished task list items, you need to use the `markdown` field instead of the `content` field:

    - [ ] ‍

    - [ ] alisdfasljdfasdfl

    - [ ] To do two

    - [ ] Book a dentist


[^3]: ## Table `blocks`

    This table is used to store content block data.

    |Field|Description|
    | ----------: | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
    |id|Content block ID|
    |parent_id|Parent block ID, If the content block is a document block, this field is empty|
    |root_id|Root block ID, which is the document block ID|
    |hash|Summary checksum of the content|
    |box|Notebook ID|
    |path|The path of the document where the content block is located|
    |hpath|The path to the document where the human-readable content block is located|
    |name|Content block name|
    |alias|Content block alias|
    |memo|Content block memo|
    |content|Text with Markdown markers removed|
    |fcontent|The first child block text with Markdown markers removed|
    |markdown|Text with complete Markdown markers|
    |length|Length of `fcontent`​|
    |type|Content block type, please refer to here[^4]|
    |subtype|Content block subtype, please refer to here[^5]|
    |ial|Inline attributes list, like  `{: name="value"}`​|
    |sort|For sorting, the smaller the value, the higher the sort|
    |created|Create time, for example `20221013202001`​|
    |updated|Update time, for example `20221013202001`​|

[^4]: ## Type field `type`

    - ​`d` Document block (Only search on the document name, will not search for the document containing content blocks)
    - ​`h` Heading block (Search only on the heading name, not the content blocks below the heading block)
    - ​`l` List block (including ordered list block, unordered list block and task list block)
    - ​`i` List item block
    - ​`b` Blockquote block
    - ​`s` Super block
    - ​`p` Paragraph block
    - ​`c` Code block
    - ​`m` Formula block
    - ​`t` Table block
    - ​`av` Database block
    - ​`query_embed` Embed block
    - ​`video` Video block
    - ​`audio` Audio block
    - ​`widget` Widget block
    - ​`iframe` IFrame block
    - ​`html` HTML block
    - ​`tb` Thematic break


[^5]: ## Subtype field `subtype`

    List block / List item block subtypes:

    - `o`：Ordered
    - `u`：Unordered
    - `t`：Task

    Heading subtypes:

    - `h1`: Level 1
    - `h2`: Level 2
    - `h3`: Level 3
    - `h4`: Level 4
    - `h5`: Level 5
    - `h6`: Level 6

    Other types of content blocks have no subtypes.
